Hello and welcome to yet another walk-through for Django for Everybody.
This is a walk-through of the first lesson where we start working on the Marketplace assignment.
So there is the Marketplace setup.
And so this is something you do before you start working on Marketplace.
We're going to start this using a GitHub, which is a little bit different.
It makes it sort of easier and then a little bit different.
So we go to the assignment specification and then it says we're going to build this.
The whole Marketplace website has got ads and tags.
And by the time you're all done, you'll have many, many features.
But we're just going to get it started now.
And there is a GitHub repo.
So instead of having you type a bunch of stuff, I've given you kind of an empty application in GitHub.
And so you are going to follow the instructions on GitHub, which is common.
You'll find Django projects.
There's a readme here.
So this is my Marketplace.
And so this is the starter.
So these instructions are how to do it.
So we're going to start by going to Python Anywhere.
Okay, so if we look at our files here, we have Django projects, which is where we're going to install it.
My site, that's the thing that you've been using to do all the applications up to this point.
And so we're going to create a new Django project.
So the first Django project is my site.
And the next Django project is going to be called Market.
Okay, so let's go into consoles and start up.
Let's get rid of that one.
Start a fresh bash console.
So the instructions here are in this GitHub repository.
Okay, so the first thing to do is check to see if you already have a Django 5.2 virtual environment.
CD Tilt.
Now, the fact that it says VE 5.2, that should be a clue right there.
But we'll do it anyways.
And you'll see that we're going to, this is the folder in your home directory, Tilt slash dot VE 5.2.
And there's stuff there.
And if you look at the instructions, it says, oh, if the output looks like this, which it does, then you've got one.
Okay, great, great.
This is, you can ignore this now because you don't have to do any of this stuff.
And then once you're ready to go, we're going to do the install.
So we've got to be in our home directory.
And we need to be in the 5.2 virtual environment.
Okay, so then we're going to start running these commands one at a time.
And I like using this little clock check all thing.
It gets kind of, you want to look at the output of every one of these things.
So this is the get command.
And the get should already be installed on, so we're in Django projects.
Now, if we take a look at our files, hit reload here, you will see now that now there's a market.
And there's a bunch of stuff in market, and it's kind of similar to what we had in my site.
You know, it sets up a bunch of stuff.
There's a manage.py and a home file config.
Now, the key thing here, if you take a look, well, let's just, let's follow it.
CD market.
So now we're in that, we're in a home directory Django projects market.
And we'll check our Python version.
And the Python version is 3.13, which is perfectly fine, because that's in our virtual environment.
Now, if you just, you may, these may not do much if you've already got your latest pip.
And it'll probably say, ah, you're already good.
You got the latest pip.
And let's do pip minus install our requirements.txt.
And I might look at that and say, you've already got it, because you've already got a virtual environment.
This is just adding a bunch of stuff.
So you just said, it's great, you got everything you needed from when you installed the DJ free samples before.
And let's just for double checking, check to see if we got Django.
And here we are in a virtual environment, we got Django 5.2.
So we are in good shape, right?
So depending on what you see, you may need to do more or less of this.
So now, you'll notice, as I said before, there is no market market.
There's a file, I changed the name of this to config, and you can file the patterns here.
So settings.py is in market config.
A lot of developers don't like the market market pattern.
I want to change the name of the project folder and the project configuration folder to be two different things.
So I followed that pattern here just to give you a little different way of thinking about it, okay?
And so we'll be in our home directory, I mean our project directory, and do python managepy check in the market directory.
And that's good.
If you have problems, you should, something went wrong.
And so it worked okay.
So we've already installed the application, and I put everything in there that you need.
Now there's a few things that you're going to have to do.
And again, in all these things, if you get an error, slow down.
So now we're going to, we're already in this folder, but we'll type it again.
So we're in our Django projects market.
And then we're going to make migrations.
Chances are good this will not give us any output.
Oops.
Yeah, no changes. That's okay.
Because that make migrations, as by now I hope you know, doesn't really touch the database.
It just looks at the models.py files.
And now we're going to do a python managepy migrate.
And so this is actually, now this is really important.
And then I'm going to create a super user.
Now you might have created a super user before, but we just changed a database and made it all fresh again.
So I'm going to call a super user, and I'm going to call it admin.
And I'm not going to give it an email address.
Yeah, I had to write that down so I don't forget it and then I have to reset it.
Okay, so we had to create a super user.
Now what we're going to do is go to the web tab and switch.
So remember this is the run server.
And so you've got a couple things here.
So we're going to change this.
Everything should be the same, except we're just going to make this be market.
And you can have many applications in here, but you only can have one active at the same time.
So you can actually switch back and forth.
So I make that be market.
And the virtual environment is right.
And then if we look at our instructions.
So it said source code and working directory, fix that.
And then we're going to edit this stuff.
This is in the WSGI configuration file.
And again, this goes into my site.
You can kind of guess what this is.
It's going to change this word my site to my site and this to config.
But I'm just going to paste them in and it will do all that.
So we're going in the market, folders the market.
But config, that's that new settings.py is in a folder named config now.
And so that's why it says config settings.
You can switch back and forth between market and my site if you want.
So let's go back to the web tab now.
So we got our WSGI done.
We've got our virtual environment is correct from before.
We had that before for the first part of the class.
So let's take a look at the application.
Ah, well, let's go to the web tab and let's reload it.
And let's then see if it works.
And there you go.
So you got some other things that you're going to do as you do stuff in here.
But if we go into these instructions, we'll see that, you know, it shows so.
We'll go to home/home.
That's there.
We'll go to /favicon.ico.
And that's the icon that shows up.
How come that's not showing up?
Oh, I see. See there you got that icon that shows up.
And then we'll do one more thing here.
Go back to the instructions and we'll go to admin.
And I name my account Admin.
And there we are.
OK, and so now you have this all set up.
And so you pretty much have finished the README at this point.
README is done.
And you have finished this initial setup.
OK, so I hope you found that useful.
And then you'll go on to the next step and the autograders, et cetera, after you finish this.
Cheers.